---
toc: true
layout: post
description: 2022 in Review
categories: [markdown]
title: Dear Me, 2023
---

# Dear Me of 2022

## Hey You

It's been a bit. 2022 was scary, intimidating, but you made it through.

I know we were quite worried about what would happen after graduating. Were things going to work out still at Hugging Face? Would we still be in Maryland? 

We did. And so much more. 

You found yourself some amazing coworkers, and now your manager is even one of the people you looked up to at the start of your whole Deep Learning journey. Sounds scary but honestly he's really chill and it's great.

Oh. Hey. Remember how your friend kept saying you totally have ADHD? Yeah, we do. Both kinds, as it comes to find out. But you found a really good place to go and you're able to do so much more. 

*The music even stops now!*

Your coworkers and team have also been super supportive about it. Honestly, the entire company your with has changed your life. You have most of the live you've dreamed years for. 

You also get past your frustrationgs with Walk with fastai and decide to do it *again*. It's actually just about to start, I'm working on finishing the last few lessons currently!

There's *tons* of people signed up who believe in you, so you're doing absolutely fantastic. I promise. 

You're getting closer and closer towards finding "yourself" finally. If I were to sum up the entire year into one idea, it'd be that. It's okay to obsess, it's okay to have fun. These are parts of you and all are lovely. *unironically here Zach*. 

We did not only our first, but **second** trip out of the country this year! You finally went to Paris! Though I can't say I recommend going around Bastille day, *far* too many people crowded around a tiny block in Paris. 

You were also able to go to Australia and meet all of your Deep Learning idols again. Jeremy helped you pick out yet another food, this time meat pies. You also finally met Sanyam, Radek, Wasim, and Hamel. Such amazing people gathered in one location, the ideas completely flurshed and that's why you're doing this course again. 

We also went to Steve Irwin's zoo. I didn't know you could pet wallaby's but I guess in Australia they're kind of like our chickens in that way. And of course we went scuba diving too. Almost every single fish we used to have in the old life we saw there, and lots of our corals. One day let's try to setup the aquarium again but do it right. Fully automated, full-proof, and maybe a hint of DL mixed in eh?

I'm sitting here a year later talking to you and honestly I still cannot believe the life we have. We are very lucky to be here. We can still visit our family at Christmas, though that had its own fun (thanks Southwest). We saw everyone in Syracuse *multiple* times. And next year we're only going to do more.

Keep pushing forward and trust yourself. You're on a great path that no one, not even I, can predict where it ends. Remember that it's okay to take breaks and experience life, not everything is about the next paycheck, the next loan paid off, the next bill. Go have fun: see those concerts, go to the aquarium, cherish time with your friends. Those too are all critical parts of life.

And it's okay to not date anyone right now, nor want to. You've still got much to figure out and learn about yourself, so don't feel rushed. Take your journey slow and at your own pace. It still hasn't ended, but that's not bad. We're doing just fine on our own and happy!

Be happy, be confident, and be kind. Life is even better after college, and it's everything you could have wanted. So go, live in it. Embrase it. Give it as much as you can, and it will return the favor tenfold.

Love,

Zach